Welcome all to this
tutorial, today I'm
gonna go ahead and
show you how you can
set your development
environment up
now I'm personally using a Linux
environment Linux operating
system. I'll show
you how you can
actually installed
UID by the terminal
but I'm guessing
that most people are
using Windows so also
I will show you how
to do it in Windows
now keep in mind
that the procedure
for Windows and for
MACs it's pretty much
to say it's very
very very similar if
you really need me to
show you how to install
codeblocks on a Mac
just send me a p.m. or something like
that and I'll make an extra video we
just download a file
in run it, that's
basically it but I'm
gonna go ahead and
show how you can conduct
an installation
on Windows and how
you can do it on
Linux so it's fairly
simple as I said I
will be using a I
don't believe it I
didn't know if I
actually mention that
in the intro but I
will be using a
Windows machine, I will be
using a Windows virtual machine for
the demonstrations of this tutorial, but it
really doesn't matter which operating
system you are using
once development
environment is set
up it will be the
same across all platforms it will look
the same across all platforms and you
will use it in
pretty much the same
fashion across all
platforms again so
the integrated development environment
that I have chosen today to use today is
basically codelocks.
Why codeblocks?
well for notice
it doesn't really
matter for Linux you
can use pretty much
whatever development
environment you
want and they were
all fairly easy to
set up but for Windows
sometimes you
can have compiler problems and you
need to link it manually
it can get complicated
however with
code blocks, you get a compiler
with the integrated
development environment
so basically just
have a file which
you download and run and that's it you
can begin your programming session it's
fairly easy no no difficult
there is nothing
particularly difficult
to do there, I mean
it's fairly easy
so you don't have to
worry about that is
the primary reason
why I have chosen to
use codeblocks, due
to the ease of setup
I generally tend to
use Eclipse for C++
or for Java I don't
do a lot of work in
Java anyway but for
Python I tend to use
Spider those are all development
environments which
you can set up now
some of you might ask
me why don't use
Visual Studio blah
blah but you have to
Visual Studio is a pretty complex
development environment and I don't like
the way things are compiled when you
take Visual Studio for example in the
keylogger course while the keylogger was being made if it was
compiled for example in Visual Studio
it wouldn't behave
the way we wanted it
to behave but for
example if we compiled
it in codeblocks
with a complete game with codeblocks
it would behave exactly the way
we have intended
it to behave so I
don't know there's
just some of my own
personal preferences
to tell you the truth
said and to be honest
with you, you can
use any development
environment for this
course that you
want just set it up
and make sure it's
running, that its
functional and you
won't have any
problems with it as long as it
comes with a compiler or did you
can order to know how
to link a compiler
to development
environment so let me
just quickly show you how you can
install it in Linux just open up a
terminal type in dnf search codebloks
and there you go,
so you indeed
have codeblocks right here
so you can type dnf install
codeblocks and this
will just basically
just go ahead run and
install codeblocks
without any problems
or difficulties
it is in default
repositories and I
personally find that
the installation is
probably the easiest
in Linux just type in
one command and that's
done, you don't
need to go visit any
sites you need to go searching
for it online you just have your
internet connection
you type in a single
command it gets pulled from the
repository is installed
and setup for you.
indeed come to the fullest extent so let
me just launched it to make sure that
it's running to make sure
that everything is fine
codeblocks. ok. current
default compiler
GCC yep that is what I want as
you can see there are some other ones
but it doesn't really matter it'll
do just fine that's what we want
and there you go
so it runs so this
is how code blocks
looks in Linux. Now
you will remember
because you will see exactly the same layout in Windows it
looks exactly the
same they're pretty
much no differences
of whatsoever so let
me just go ahead and close it because I
don't really need it here if you're
using this is for our
view this is the
way to install it on
Fedora if you using
Ubuntu or Debian based distribution you
can just type in apt-get
install code blocks
this should work
should work on it
in pretty much any
Debian system
without any problems if
you're using some other
Linux that had that
not using the app get
or its not using
the DNF you can just type in the
command that is used to install
basically here and
space install space
codeblocks it should work without any
problems
keep in mind that
you can also pretty
much use the same
procedure as you do
the same procedure
as on Windows or
Linux as well you can
just download it
from the net and run the file so that's
also an option
so let me just move
this terminal away onto
my other screen and
here is a Windows setup
so Windows setup is
also fairly easy, let
me just go ahead and
expand this across
the full screen
ok so let's go ahead
and open up Firefox
and let's type
codeblocks fairly simple
open up the website it's gonna be the
first one, if you type in codeblocks
chances are there's going to be
the very first one
ok so you have a lot
of documentation
here that you can
read about it if
you want, not big deal
go into downloads, we would
like to download the
binary release it can
also be done with the
source code if you want to examine it
and here you have like I don't know if you're
a Mac user just go
ahead and click on
Mac OS X its gonna
drop you down and
there you go thats file that you
download and that you run that you
don't actually need
to do pretty much
anything else what is
codeblocks ok so you
don't really have
the latest one for
Mac but yeah they're
looking for Mac
developers so if you
are and if you feel
like you want to do
it you can apply
it's it's out there
you know it's very
very good learning
best way to learn
actually but anyway
that doesn't really
matter now so you see
you have also for
Linux 32 bit and 64 bit,
it'll show what you
want and you also have
this is a demo for
Windows, you also have here for Windows
Windows XP Windows Vista 78, point eight
8.1 and Windows 10, Ok
just go ahead
basically and click
on it and here you
have multiple choice
options so let me
just see which one do
we need we need the
one we deem in GWT
compiler which is
going to be this one,
picks up, so just
go ahead so once
again look it's this
one I am selecting it don't
miss it so if you do something else
chances are you're
going to encounter
problems thats the
1,2,3 the fourth one
from the top and then go ahead
and click on sourceforge.net
it says download of
codeblocks will start
at like 3,4,5 seconds
whatever excellent so
you have chosen to open
codeblocks, exit, ok,
save file. By the way, let
me just tell you that
when downloading X-files files from the net
and running on your PC
make sure I mean
absolutely make sure
that you trust the
source of your
download and that you
trust the developers
of that program especially when
downloading closed
source applications
codeblocks is not a
cause close source
application it's open
source application
you can actually
download the source
code itself and have
a look around if you
want, no big deal
there but I'm just
saying that when you download X-files doesn't
matter if the course is mine or someone
else's or if you were looking at a
YouTube tutorial or whatever and when
somebody says ok now
you need to go to this
website download this
X-files file and run into your PC
don't don't take that and face value like
think about it a little bit examine
the source where you're downloading it
from what to what are you downloading
don't just downloaded
theX-files files and
run them on your PC,
it can cause you
a ton load of problems
so just go ahead
and click on this we're going to
download it basically and run it
it doesn't matter which
browser you're using,
I personally am using
Firefox I really
prefer Firefox across
all my devices
so welcome to
codeblocks, set up next
agree ok so all these
things need to be
selected click on
Next install and it's
going to run so now
you can just leave
it and let it roll
eventually it's going
to get there, the
installation process
is surprisingly a
little bit slower on
Windows probably
because it's a virtual
machine and it is not
as fast as my main
machine you can
see that the icon
appeared in the upper
left corner as
well, excellent. So it's
gonna finish, the beauty
of it is as I said is
that it comes with a
compiler so there's
no need for linking
or any of that, or any of those
complications that
come around where the
clips or some other
ID although I do
prefer actually a clips
for when I'm working
on a project or something
like that it does
come with a pretty good
amount of options so do you want to run
codeblocks now? No thank you, we should
run it later, you click Next
finish close. Yeah, there we go so it's
done and over with and I would never
want to say is that
codeblocks not as
it lacks options but
it's probably one
of the best development
environments for
learning probably the
best and you can
also do some very serious
working on it, so let's
go ahead and open it
up, run it, there you
go. So look, let me just go ahead minimize the
virtual machine
and go ahead then run
codeblocks here so
do you notice the
similarity it looks
pretty much the same right?
So this
is Linux and this
is windows so the
development environment
looks the same
and it's going to
look pretty much
exactly the same on a MAC
as well so you don't
need to actually worry
about that either
there are no problems there of
whatsoever so pretty much the same the
the development
environments and the
installation procedure
is also fairly
simple there aren't pretty much no complications with it so
let me just go ahead
and expand this to
full screen if you
want to create your
project to just go. This is just
a very very very basics as we progress
through the tutorial downwards and as we go into
two more complex
stuff as we begin
learning etc, I
will introduce the
various options in codeblocks but I
just want to show you how to create
a project so just
go ahead and click
on File, go into
New, go into Project
click on console
application click on Go
next select this,
make sure that C++ is
selected here next
whatever you can name
your project, I'm
just gonna name my
test for now you can
select the folder
where you would
like to save your
project this isn't arbitrary I mean
wherever you save it wherever you want
it makes the difference
to me, I will be
doing my saves on
desktop because I will
delete them later on
anyway and go ahead
and click on Next
you don't need to
change anything here just click on
Finish and you will get your first C++
project this is a
generic thing that's
generated by codeblocks,
it can be changed
main of this is, what
all of this is
how it all works all
of this will be explained
now another key thing
is that if you want to
like for example delete
a file actually if
you want to delete
a project, it's a
bit strange you first
need to go ahead
and go into closed project and then go
into the file here wherever I have saved
that, codeblocks, I
have no idea where I
saved it, let me just
go into properties
test this chapter 4 ok it seems
to have used a previous folder
yep it's right here,
so look, if you want
to delete this project
you need to first
close the project and
then find it in the
file system so mine
is here and then
deleted it, the reason why
you'll see Chapter four
loops, we're gonna get
to that,t is due to the
fact that I usually
cast at least like
50% of the course or
something like that
and then I come back
and make the intro
for the course and set
up I don't know I
just find it easier
that way but hey you
know many people
and many different
tastes and ideas
ok so now that you
have your integrated
development environment
setup configured
up and running I'm
gonna go ahead and
bid you farewell
here and hope to see
you in the follow tutorial where we will
actually start coding